So now let's have
a look at RStudio. RStudio is IDE, Integrated
Development Environment, and it's made for the
programming language R. R is a statistical programming
language which has been derived from the closed
source S language. So R is open source, RStudio is open source, and it's completely for free. The central data structure
in R is a DataFrame. So we have here a
window which contains an editor and below we have here a window which
contains the console. The R interpreter is the
interactive interpreter. So you have access to the
interpreter here at anytime, but it's handy if you
have a text editor here. You can always execute the code you're writing
here in this text editor. On the top right, you have a narrow window where your environment
is displayed, so every variable on the heap is accessible and
you can also inspect it. If you plot graphs, they are ending up here. So let's start with a DataFrame. So in order to find
out where we are, we say, "Getwd," so
get working directory. So we are in the "Home"
folder. That's pretty cool. So now we say, DataFrame equals. You might have seen this
symbol here, so that's legacy. There's only a slight
difference in function codes, so don't worry about it unless you're using
it in function codes. So you can use the normal
ordinary assignment operator, which makes our looking
a bit less ugly. So we say now read.csv
and now we can say, "Go to my Downloads folder". In here we see all
the possible files. So I know it started with CU, so it's customer messages. We hit Enter, we can
execute this line. Then this line gets copied to the console and gets executed. At the same time, you
see here DataFrame is basically containing
the data from that CSV, and we can now have a look at the contents of this DataFrame. If we say, "View(df)", you see here it's already shown
inside the editor window. What we notice is that the first line has been
interpreted as header. That's something we don't want. So we can say, "Header FALSE". It's very handy that you
have autocompletion here as you always know what
parameters a function has. If you now have a look
at DataFrame again, you see here the first line is now part of the data
and not the header. So that's how you can load data. You can, of course, also load data from
remote database systems. You can use ODBC for that, but that's beyond the
scope of this tutorial. What I want to show you is
another way of importing data, you can say here,
"Import from CSV" and then the code is
actually created for you. So let's open the file again. It's basically doing the same, just that you have an idea. You have a data preview
with the same problem that you have the first
line interpreted as header. So you can actually uncheck this one here and then
it's as it should be, and you say, "Import". You notice here you
have a second object here on the heap which is
called customer messages. It's also DataFrame and
it's also shown here. That concludes the first video. In the next video, I will show you how to
work with libraries, and then after that I will
show you how to create plots.