Most organizations have huge amounts of data
stored in many forms in various locations. Finding relevant data quickly and connecting
disparate data sources can be challenging and time-consuming. Watson Knowledge Catalog
unites all information assets into a single metadata-rich catalog, based on Watson’s
understanding of relationships between assets and how they’re being used and socialized
among users in existing projects. Let’s have a look at the overview of different tool
categories that we’ve previously discussed. Watson Knowledge Catalog corresponds to the
Data Asset Management, Code Asset Management, Data Management, and Data Integration and
Transformation. Watson Knowledge Catalog is a data catalog that is integrated with an
enterprise data governance platform. It also merges the analytics capabilities of Watson
Studio. The data catalog assists data scientists to easily find, prepare, understand, and use
the data as needed. Watson Knowledge Catalog protects data from misuse and enables the
sharing of assets with automated, dynamic masking of sensitive data elements. Data-profile
visualizations, built-in charts and statistics help users to understand data assets. Seamless
integration with Watson Studio helps data citizens to drive production of their data
in a suite of powerful data science, AI, machine-learning and deep-learning tools. Joining with Watson
Studio directs the building, training, and deploying of models. Users can interactively
discover, cleanse, and prepare data with a built-in data refinery. Possible connections
to more than 30 IBM and third-party data sources help to catalog and use your data in the original
locations. IBM Watson Knowledge Catalog has various deployment choices on IBM Cloud™
and can be run anywhere with IBM Cloud Pak™ for Data. The latter is a fully-integrated
data and AI platform built on Red Hat® OpenShift® Container base. It can be deployed easily
into any public or private cloud or other enterprise platforms.
A catalog contains metadata about the contents of assets and how to access them. And a set
of collaborators who need to use the assets for data analysis. The metadata is stored
in an encrypted IBM Cloud object storage instance. Any data that you want to store in the Cloud,
you can upload to the cloud object storage of your choice, and then specify that object
storage when you create the catalog. This split between where the data's metadata is
stored and the actual location of the data is important. It means that you can keep your
data where ever it is. You don't need to move it into the catalog because the catalog only
contains metadata. You can have the data in unpremises data repositories in other IBM
cloud services like Cloudant or Db2 on Cloud and in non-IBM cloud services like Amazon
or Azure, in streaming data services or even dark data sources like PDFs. Included in the
metadata is how to access the data asset. In other words, the location and credentials.
That means that anyone who is a member of the catalog and has sufficient permissions
can get to the data without knowing the credentials or having to create their own connection to
the data. Since the new catalog is empty, let's take a look at an existing catalog.
On the Browse Assets tab you can see "recommendations", "highly rated assets", and "recently created
assets", as well as a list of all the assets. You can type a search term to find assets,
and you can filter by asset type, such as Data Asset or Notebook. Or filter by tags
that were assigned to the asset when it was added to the catalog. When you view an asset,
you get a preview of the data and other information like a description, ratings, tags, where the
source is located, and any classifications. On the Access tab, those with permission can
add members to view this particular asset. And the Review tab shows reviews and lets
you contribute a review. When assets are added to a catalog with Data Policies enabled, Watson
Knowledge Catalog automatically profiles and classifies the content of the asset based
on the values in those columns. The Profile tab contains more detailed information about
the inferred classifications. You can see the other possibilities for classifying each
column and the confidence scores for those other possibilities. On the Lineage tab, you'll
see the various events that Watson Knowledge Catalog has captured that occurred in the
lifecycle of this data asset, allowing you to trace what's happened to the asset since
it was created. On the Access Control tab, you can see the current list of catalog members.
you can also add members which is pretty similar to adding collaborators in a project. Most
catalog members will likely have the editor role. The viewer role is intentionally restricted
and only a select few users will have the admin role.
Watson Knowledge Catalog includes capabilities to automatically mask sensitive data according
to your organization's governance policies. For example, you can see in the diagram that
the first name, last name, and gender data in the data set have been masked. You’ve
learned how IBM Watson Knowledge Catalog can help organizations deal with their numerous
data and other assets. In the next video we’ll look at Data Refinery, a powerful tool for
analyzing and preparing data.