In earlier sections we saw how IBM SPSS Modeler
and Watson Studio Modeler flows allow you to graphically create a stream or flow that
includes data transformation steps and machine learning models. Such sequences of steps are called data pipelines
or ML pipelines. This section examines a feature of Watson
Studio that helps to automate the creation of machine learning pipelines. This allows data scientists to produce results
much faster and to focus on more creative work. There is currently a shortage of qualified
data scientists. Many operations that a data scientist typically
performs are repetitive and time-consuming. Therefore, automating some of that repetitive
work will help free up both new and experienced data scientists to do the important work that
they are trained to do. The AutoAI system was developed by IBM Research
experts in collaboration with IBM Distinguished Engineer and two-time Kaggle Grandmaster Jean-Francois
Puget. It provides a graphical interface to create
and deploy machine learning models with real time visualizations. AutoAI automatically performs typical machine
learning steps, such as: Data preparation
Model selection Feature engineering
Hyper-parameter optimization Users can view the progress on the graphical
interface. This example shows the training of a model
to predict whether or not a customer is likely to buy a tent from an outdoor equipment store. We start with structured data. In this historical data, there are four feature,
or “predictor,” columns: GENDER: The customer’s gender
AGE: The customer’s age MARITAL_STATUS: “Married”, “Single”,
or “Unspecified” and
PROFESSION: The general category of the customer’s profession, such “Hospitality” or “Sales”,
or simply “Other.” The model will learn to predict the value
for the IS_TENT column; that is, whether or not the customer bought a tent. After we choose IS_TENT as the column to predict,
AutoAI analyzes the data and determines that the IS_TENT column contains True/False information,
making this data suitable for a binary classification model. The default metric for a binary classification
is ROC/AUC. After we click Run experiment, an infographic
shows the process of building the pipelines as the model trains. Once the pipeline creation is complete, we
can view and compare the ranked pipelines in a leaderboard. The pipelines for the sample binary classification
model are quite uniform because of the underlying sample data. To see pipelines in action, re-run the experiment
as a regression experiment to predict purchase amount. That experiment gives better variation in
the resulting pipelines. After clicking “Pipeline comparison,”
we can see how the pipelines differ on various measures of model quality. The pipelines can be saved as Machine Learning
assets in the Watson Studio project. Then they can be deployed and tested. Currently AutoAI is available only for classification
and regression models; there is a plan to add time series model support in the future. In this unit, you have learned how AutoAI
automates typical data science tasks and helps get better performing data pipelines more
quickly, while also simplifying pipeline deployment into production in Watson Machine Learning. In the next section, we will discuss Watson
OpenScale, which helps to ensure that your models are fair, explainable, and up to date.