Every business wants to work smarter, and
to do that you need to tap into your company's greatest resource, your data.
But extracting the full value out of your data isn't always an easy process.
First. you end up juggling an incredibly large and complex collection of tools
that are used for finding and cleaning data, analyzing and generating
visualizations of that data, and using the data to build and deploy machine
learning models. And to make matters worse these tools are often a time drain
to individually manage, and can be difficult to integrate into your system,
which can really slow down the workflow. But not anymore.
Using Watson Studio you can simplify your data projects with a streamlined
process, that allows you to extract value and insights from your data to help your
business get smarter, faster. It delivers an easy-to-use collaborative data
science and machine learning environment for building and training models,
preparing and analyzing data, and sharing insights, all in one place.
Watson Studios easy to create visualizations and drag-and-drop code
put the power of database decision-making into the hands of any
member of your organization with no need for IT assistance. And if you need access
to open source tools, the environment offers some of the most popular and
powerful ones available. Watson Studio single environment also creates a
workflow that's incredibly efficient so data scientists can share assets and
work to solve problems within the system rather than starting from scratch every
time a new issue arises. And developers can use that efficiency to quickly dive
into building machine learning and deep learning algorithms.  In fact, in the area
of deep learning, Watson Studio supports some of the most
popular frameworks and can deploy that deep learning on to the latest GPUs to
help accelerate modeling by making it easier to use. The environments built-in
neural network modeler also helps you build models with a simplified graphical
interface even if you don't have the dedicated resources to build a model
from scratch, Watson's Studio can help you get started with modeling templates
for areas such as visual recognition, language classification,
and other tools from IBM Watson services. Because Watson Studio is seamlessly
integrated with the IBM Watson Knowledge Catalog, an intelligent asset discovery
tool, you can transform data and models into trusted enterprise resources and
collaborate with confidence, without compromising compliance, security or
access control. Watson Studio provides many benefits for organizations helping
to infuse AI into the business and drive innovation. You can train Watson Studio
with embedded AI services including watson visual recognition. You can
customize your models and deploy them as APIs or Core ML by using open source
tools like Jupyter, Notebook, Anaconda and RStudio. Watson Studio supports
most popular code libraries as well as no code visual modeling with neural
network modeler for designing neural architectures using the most popular
deep learning frameworks. In Watson Studio you can interactively discover,
cleanse, and transform your data using data refinery. It helps you understand
the quality and distribution of your data with built-in charts and statistics,
and provides visualized results through interactive dashboards. Watson Studio
includes an intuitive drag-and-drop interface that enables a non programmer
to speed up the bottle building process by visually selecting, configuring,
designing and auto coding neural networks. From development and training
to production and evaluation, Watson Studio tracks your models over time to
ensure you have the best performance for any given task using the best solutions
across the entire lifecycle of your machine learning models.