In this video, we'll be talking
about Descriptive Statistics. When you begin to analyze data,
it's important to first explore your data before you spend time
building complicated models. One easy way to do so, is to calculate
some Descriptive Statistics for your data. Descriptive statistical analysis helps to
describe basic features of a data set, and obtains a short summary about
the sample and measures of the data. Let's show you a couple
different useful methods. One way in which we can do this is by
using the describe function in pandas. Using the describe function and applying
it on your data frame, the describe function automatically computes basic
statistics for all numerical variables. It shows the mean, the total number of
data points, the standard deviation, the quartiles and the extreme values. Any NAN values are automatically
skipped in these statistics. This function will give you a clear idea
of the distribution of your different variables. You could have also categorical
variables in your data set. These are variables that can be divided up
into different categories or groups, and have discrete values. For example, in our data set we have the
drive system as a categorical variable, which consists of the categories,
forward wheel drive, rear wheel drive and four wheel drive. One way you can summarize
the categorical data, is by using the function value_counts. We can change the name of the column
to make it easier to read. We see that we have 118 cars in
the front wheel drive category. 75 cars in the rear wheel drive category,
and 8 cars in the four wheel drive category. Box plots are a great way
to visualize numeric data, since you can visualize the various
distributions of the data. The main features that the box plot shows,
are the median of the data, which represents where
the middle data point is. The upper quartile shows
where the 75th percentile is. The lower quartile shows
where the 25th percentile is. The data between the upper and lower quartile represents
the interquartile range. Next you have the lower and
upper extremes. These are calculated as 1.5
times the interquartile range, above the 75th percentile, and as 1.5
times the IQR below the 25th percentile. Finally, box plots also display
outliers as individual dots that occur outside the upper and
lower extremes. With box plots,
you can easily spot outliers, and also see the distribution and
skewness of the data. Box plots make it easy to
compare between groups. In this example, using box plot we can see
the distribution of different categories of the drive wheels feature
over price feature. We can see that the distribution of
price between the rear wheel drive, and the other categories are distinct. But the price for front wheel drive and four wheel drive are almost
indistinguishable. Often times we tend to see
continuous variables in our data. These data points are numbers
contained in some range. For example, in our data set price and
engine size are continuous variables. What if we want to understand
the relationship between engine size and price. Could engine size possibly
predict the price of a car? One good way to visualize
this is using a scatter plot. Each observation in the scatter
plot is represented as a point. This plot shows the relationship
between two variables. The predictor variable, is the variable
that you are using to predict an outcome. In this case our predictor
variable is the engine size. The target variable is the variable
that you are trying to predict. In this case,
our target variable is the price. Since this would be the outcome. In a scatter plot, we typically set
the predictor variable on the x-axis or horizontal axis, and we set the target
variable on the y-axis or vertical axis. In this case, we will thus plot
the engine size on the x-axis and the price on the y-axis. We are using, the matplotlib functions
scatter here, taking in x and y variable. Something to note is that it's always
important to label your axes, and write a general plot title, so
that you know what you're looking at. Now how is the variable
engine size related to price? From the scatter plot,
we see that as the engine size goes up, the price of the car also goes up. This is giving us an initial
indication that there is a positive linear relationship between
these two variables. [MUSIC]