Hello, and welcome to an Introduction to relational model constraints. This video provides an overview. We will learn about referencing between entities, and we will learn some new terminology that is used in a relational model. At the end of this lesson, you will be able to explain referencing, differentiate between a primary key and a foreign key, and identify apparent table and dependent table. Within any business, data must adhere to certain restrictions or rules. In this lesson, we will use the book and author example. At least one author writes one book. This is a one to one relationship. To look up the author information, the book entity refers to the author entity. To look up the book information, the author entity refers to the book entity. In a relational data model, this is called referencing. In relational databases, this establishes the data integrity between two relations. This entity relationship diagram, represents the relational data model for the author entity and book entity as part of a simplified library database model. Other entities have been added such as borrower, loan, copy, and author list. Notice that the attributes author underscore Id, book underscore Id, and borrower underscore Id, have a special icon. This identifies the primary key. A primary key of a relational table uniquely identifies each row in a table. Notice the entities on the lower half of the screen, some attributes have FK in brackets next to them. For example, the copy entity has attribute book underscore Id with the FK in brackets. This identifies the foreign key. A foreign key is a set of columns referring to a primary key of another table. These entities are part of the relationship set between the entities above them. All of the entities have a one to many relationship established between them. Let's learn a couple of new terms that are used in the relational model. A table containing a primary key that is related to at least one foreign key is called a parent table. In the example, the author entity is the parent table. The book entity is also a parent table. A table containing one or more foreign keys is called a dependent table. It might also be referred to as a child table. In the example, the author underscore list entity has foreign keys that refer to different parent tables, author and book. There's more to learn about relational model constraints. But with this overview, now you can explain referencing, differentiate between a primary key and foreign key, and identify a parent table and a dependent table. Thanks for watching this video.