Welcome back to the second part of my little
GitHub for Dummies series. One thing I forgot on the last video is how
to sync if someone else has made a change. Okay. Let's consider this repository here, we have
nothing inside; so this is actually the remote repository here on GitHub. So, we will again create a little README file,
add "README: and then we say "git add" and then we say "git commit" "blahblah" and then
"git push". Then we have the README file here, and now
let's create a new file in the remote repository that's something which will happen also if
someone else pushes something to that repository. You will see a new file... and this is now
only in the remote repository and not in my Local (repository). You see here, there's only the README and
not the new file. To obtain this new file, you say just "git
pull" and then you see here the new file is also here. And yeah, that's basically it. And then interestingly let's say you are,
for example, working on a huge sub-project in the repository and you don't want to interfere
with the main work going on. The main work is basically called a branch,
which is "master" You can create your own branch. So you can say, "Git branch mybranch" for
example. So, then you say "git status" we still see
that we are here on the master branch. Now we say "git checkout mybranch" and now,
see, we are switched to my branch. and now we say "git status" and you also see here
we are on mybranch. Now what I do is... here we have those two
files, and we say "# stuff on branch" here and we say "stuffonbranch.txt" so "git add
stuffonbranch.txt" then "git commit" and "bla" and "git push" Ah yeah, we have to also create this branch
remotely. So, and now we push it to a remote branch. Now we can actually see that mybranch has
been created here and you see here the file stuff on branch which is not on the master. So, what we do now here is we switch back
to the main branch. So that's "git checkout master" and then we
say "git merge mybranch" So this has been automatically merged so you
see here we have stuff on branch also in my local folder here. But we see here it is still not in the master,
ok? So we say "git push" and if you now refresh
you see stuff on branch. So what happened here is we have merged from
the local branch repository into the local master repository and now we push the contents
of the local master repository to the remote master repository, and that way we have merged
branch back into the master branch. So, that is all for now here. In the next video, I will show you how to
actually create pull requests and contribute to foreign repositories.