All right, before we start learning about foursquare and their API, let's get some of the logistics out of the way. For this project, we will be using Watson Studio as the platform to build our code for the project and to share it with our peers. So each of you will need to create a Watson Studio account in order to proceed with the course. And in this video I will walk you through the process. Now for those you who don't know, Watson Studio is an awesome platform that provides a suite of tools for data other scientists to collaboratively and easily work with application developers and subject matter experts. And to build, train, and deploy models at scale. For the sake of this project, we won't be doing any extensive machine learning. But by using Watson Studio and learning about its features, you will hopefully appreciate what it has to offer. So let's go to the following link that is www.ibm.com/cloud/watson-studio. This will take you to the landing page of Watson Studio. Feel free to check it out to learn more about its features and what the platform has to offer. You can also watch the video to learn more about it. And once you're ready to create an account, you can simply click on Start your free trial. This will bring you to a page where you have to enter your email address. So I'm going to do that. And then check the box to accept the terms. Once you've done that, click Next. This will redirect you to a page where you have to fill in your personal details. So go ahead and fill in your First and Last Name, your Country or Region, and a password for your account. Then you can check the box if you wish to remain informed about any products or services by IBM. And then scroll down and click Create Account. Awesome, so at this point, you should receive an email to confirm your account and to continue with this kind of process. So go to your account and follow the instructions in the email. I'm going to do the same thing here. [SOUND] By the way, this is just a dummy account that I created for demonstration purposes. There you go. Here is the email from IBM Cloud. So you click on the email and you click Confirm Account. Awesome. You should automatically then get redirected to this page. Now this page has all the details about the IBM privacy policy, so feel free to read it to understand the policy and your rights as a user. Then scroll down all the way to the bottom and click proceed. Here you can specify what account to use and the organization. And the IBM cloud space, in case you have more than one. But for most of you, you can simply go with the default settings, so just click Continue. Right now we'll take some time to create your account. There you go. And that completes the process of signing up on Watson Studio. Now you can click Get Started. Once you get to this page,you're good to go and you're good to start creating new projects. Now in the next video, I'll show you how to create a project and how to start creating notebooks under that project and how to share them with your peers or other collaborators. So I'll see you in the next video.