Digital Transformation affects business operations,
updating existing processes and operations and creating new ones to harness the benefits
of new technologies. This digital change integrates digital technology
into all areas of an organization resulting in fundamental changes to how it operates
and delivers value to customers. It is an organizational and cultural change
driven by Data Science, and especially Big Data. The availability of vast amounts of data,
and the competitive advantage that analyzing it brings has triggered digital transformations
throughout many industries. Netflix moved from being a postal DVD lending
system to one of the world’s foremost video streaming providers, the Houston Rockets NBA
team used data gathered by overhead cameras to analyze the most productive plays, and
Lufthansa analyzed customer data to improve its service. Organizations all around us are changing to
their very core. Let’s take a look at an example, to see
how Big Data can trigger a digital transformation, not just in one organization, but in an entire
industry. In 2018, the Houston Rockets, a National Basketball
Association, or NBA team, raised their game using Big Data. The Rockets were one of four NBA teams to
install a video tracking system which mined raw data from games. They analyzed video tracking data to investigate
which plays provided the best opportunities for high scores, and discovered something
surprising. Data analysis revealed that the shots that
provide the best opportunities for high scores are two-point dunks from inside the two-point
zone, and three-point shots from outside the three-point line, not long-range two-point
shots from inside it. This discovery entirely changed the way the
team approached each game, increasing the number of three-point shots attempted. In the 2017-18 season, the Rockets made more
three-point shots than any other team in NBA history, and this was a major reason they
won more games than any of their rivals. In basketball, Big Data changed the way teams
try to win, transforming the approach to the game. Digital transformation is not simply duplicating
existing processes in digital form; the in-depth analysis of how the business operates helps
organizations discover how to improve their processes and operations, and harness the
benefits of integrating data science into their workflows. Most organizations realize that digital transformation
will require fundamental changes to their approach towards data, employees, and customers,
and it will affect their organizational culture. Digital transformation impacts every aspect
of the organization, so it is handled by decision makers at the very top levels to ensure success. The support of the Chief Executive Officer
is crucial to the digital transformation process, as is the support of the Chief Information
Officer, and the emerging role of Chief Data Officer. But they also require support from the executives
who control budgets, personnel decisions, and day-to-day priorities. This is a whole organization process. Everyone must support it for it to succeed. There is no doubt dealing with all the issues
that arise in this effort requires a new mindset, but Digital Transformation is the way to succeed
now and in the future.